Whether you just switched to Windows 11
or feel like your computer is running
slower than it should be, this is the
video for you. I've made many highly
rated optimization guides and tested
every one of these tweaks across
multiple desktops, laptops, and even
tablets using both Intel and AMD CPUs
and Nvidia AMD and Intel GPUs. And by
the end of this video, you will get
better FPS, lower input delay, and an
overall more responsive system without
having to spend money to upgrade your
PC. Let's start with the basics, the
essential Windows optimizations that I
do on every PC, regardless of the specs.
First, we're going to create our restore
point by pressing your Windows key,
typing in create, and pressing enter.
This way, if for some reason anything
goes wrong as you follow this video, you
can use this restore point to revert any
changes you've made. So, click on
configure, select turn on system
protection, and click okay. Now that
that's enabled, click create, give it a
name, and click on create again. And
shortly after, it should tell you that a
restore point has been created
successfully. So if something ever ends
up going wrong with your system, you can
simply use this restore point. After
you've created that restore point, you
can safely move on to the first
essential Windows optimizations, game
mode, OFWG, and hags. So press your
Windows key, type in game mode, press
enter to go into the game mode settings,
and enable game mode. In very basic
terms, it improves your stability by
making your CPU and GPU focus more on
foreground tasks like your game instead
of background tasks. In the same area,
click on graphics, then change default
graphics settings and enable
optimizations for windowed games. In
DX10 and DX11 games like Fortnite, this
setting allows you to use windowed full
screen while maintaining similar input
delay to exclusive full screen. If you
see hardware accelerated GPU scheduling
or hags here as well, I also recommend
turning that on. As a brief explanation,
GPU scheduling is normally done entirely
on the CPU, but with this on, the GPU
can schedule tasks for itself, which can
boost your average FPS and 1% lows, as
well as decrease your input latency
depending on the game. And obviously,
you're going to see the biggest
difference in CPU intensive games like
Fortnite and Counter-Strike now that the
CPU has less to do. However, you might
not see a performance impact in
primarily GPU intensive games, and at
worst, it can cause system instability
and stutters. but turn it back off if
you notice any of the mentioned issues
because again it depends entirely on the
games you play. Next, we're going to
disable core isolation. While Microsoft
has made improvements, independent
testing continues to show that memory
integrity, which uses
virtualizationbased security or VPS, can
cause between 2 to 5% less performance
in games. For a gaming PC, disabling
this could measurably increase your FPS.
And as long as you have Windows Defender
enabled or some other trusted antivirus,
you'll be more than fine. To disable it,
press your Windows key, type in core,
press enter, and toggle memory integrity
off. I recommend leaving everything else
alone as they don't make noticeable
performance impacts while keeping your
PC safer. However, you will need to
restart your PC to apply this change.
Now that you've disabled core isolation,
let's clean up your Windows bloatware by
using the latest version of the most
trusted debloating tool, the Chris Titus
Tech DBLOW utility. It's safe, super
userfriendly, and doesn't require a full
installation. So, even though you can
technically do all of this manually,
this will save you a ton of time and
headaches. So to run this utility on
your PC, press the Windows key, type
PowerShell, then click run as
administrator. This will not work
without admin privileges. Next, copy and
paste the first line from the
description and press enter. Make sure
you got the full line, not just the
link. In a few moments, a window similar
to this should pop up. When it does open
up, we're going to go straight to the
tweaks tab at the top. From here, in
essential tweaks, you can copy the left
side if you're on a desktop, and if
you're on a laptop or portable device,
copy the right side. But I still
recommend that you hover your mouse over
each tweak and read their description so
that you know exactly what everything
does. Moving on to the advanced tweaks
section. These are all technically safe
to use, but accidentally checking the
wrong ones will genuinely ruin your
Windows 11 experience. So here's what I
would do personally. First, I like to
leave Adobe Network Block unchecked so I
can actually use Adobe websites
properly. Adobe DBLow is perfectly fine
to use though. It will not affect your
experience using any of their apps. I
also recommend against checking set
display to performance because it makes
everything look like trash. We'll
manually adjust this later in the video
for better performance, but also not
ruining your Windows 11 experience.
Additionally, I highly recommend against
removing all Microsoft Store apps as it
completely removes useful apps like the
snipping tool, which I use all the time
to take screenshots. Once you're
satisfied with your selection of tweaks,
click run tweaks at the bottom. And
after a few minutes, depending on how
many tweaks you selected, this window
will pop up saying tweaks are finished.
So, you can close everything off. Next,
we're going to take a look at the power
plants because they can have a massive
impact on your performance. To find your
power plants, press the Windows key,
type power, and hit enter to open the
power options. Here is where you will
definitely want to spend 6 or 7 minutes
doing some quick and easy testing for
yourself because some of you may get
better results using different power
plants. Regardless, I'm going to show
you how to add a power plan called the
ultimate performance power plan, which
typically works the best on mid to
high-end gaming PCs. By default, the
ultimate power plan is nowhere to be
seen. So to get it, open command prompt
as administrator. Copy and paste this
line from the description and hit enter.
When you refresh the power options by
backing out and going back in. The new
power plan will show up in the
additional plans and you can select it.
To test different power plans out, it's
very easy because you don't have to
restart your PC after changing it. So it
barely takes any time to test all four
main power plans. All you have to do is
run a benchmark for your favorite game
using each plan and see which one gets
the best performance for you. For most
of you, that's going to be the ultimate
power plan that we added. But for some,
maybe sticking to the balance plan will
work the best. Whatever the case is, you
can now game happily knowing that you
picked the best power plan for you. Next
up are the Nvidia GPU optimizations. AMD
users, you can skip to the next chapter
of the video. Now, I often hear people
say that tweaking the Nvidia control
panel doesn't make a real difference,
but even Nvidia's own guys will tell you
that that isn't true. And from my own
testing, the performance boost you gain
just by spending a minute changing these
settings is undeniable. To open NVCP,
right click on your desktop and click on
Nvidia Control Panel. If this is your
first time, it's going to ask you to
agree to some terms and conditions, but
after agreeing to that, it will bring
you to this page. On this page, find
manage 3D settings on the left side of
the window, and we're going to change
eight of these to increase your
performance. The first three of eight
that I'm going to talk about are pretty
much always going to give you better
performance if you change them from
their default settings. Starting with
the OpenGL rendering GPU, just set that
to whatever GPU you want to use while
gaming. This is key for certain OpenGL
games, software, and emulation. It just
prevents Windows from using the wrong
GPU, which doesn't happen often, but
when it does, you'll wish you changed
this setting earlier. The second one
that everyone should change is
increasing your shader cache size to 10
GB. The reason we use 10 GB is because
if the driver default is, let's say, 4
GB and you fill that up, your PC is
going to start deleting shaders to free
up space for new ones. Meaning that if
you ever go back into an area in the
game where you needed that deleted
shader again, your game could stutter.
Why not switch it to 100, you might be
asking? Well, unless you're benchmarking
literally thousands of games every week.
Uh, you're never even going to get close
to using 100 gigabytes. I can promise
you that. And finally, the last setting
that everyone should change is turning
vertical sync off. All this setting does
is eliminate screen tearing while
destroying your latency. So, definitely
keep it off for a better experience.
These next five settings depend on both
your system configuration as well as
personal preferences. So, change these
settings accordingly. Anti-aliasing
gamma correction doesn't come at any
performance cost, but you may want to
turn it off for sharper edges, making it
easier to make out objects in
competitive games. Or you might want to
leave it on for more accurate images in
your single player games. But again,
this doesn't affect your FPS, so it's
purely about personal preference. Next
is arguably the most important setting
for competitive gamers, low latency
mode. Because, as you could probably
expect, it makes a huge difference on
latency, but can come at the cost of
your FPS on lower-end hardware. Now,
here's the most important part. If your
game supports Nvidia Reflex, you should
enable Reflex in the game settings.
Reflex is a smarter, more advanced
technology that does the same job, but
more efficiently, and it will
automatically override this control
panel setting. However, if your game
does not support Reflex or you do not
use it, be sure to try changing this to
on or ultra. Just be aware that ultra
can be more demanding on your components
and can affect your FPS negatively in
some CPU intensive games, and you will
have to restart your game to apply these
changes. Something that can affect your
FPS extremely positively is switching
your power management mode to prefer
maximum performance. Based on my
testing, this setting alone is super
good for increasing your 1% lows, but
outside of that, it really doesn't do
much. Clock speeds, temperatures,
everything else stays pretty much about
the same. Basically, turn this on for
the most consistent gaming experience.
But if you're on a laptop or use your PC
for a lot of browsing or lowintensity
tasks, you'll probably have more success
if you leave this on normal. For the
last two settings, you want to decrease
your texture filtering quality down to
high performance. With this setting on
high performance, I saw improvements
across the board in basically every
game. And for anotropic sample
optimization, I definitely recommend
individually testing this one from the
other settings because it's a little bit
of a mixed bag. Like in Rocket League,
for example, having it off is actually
better. And to wrap things up, you
should always feel free to tweak these
based on your specific needs. And there
is also a very accessible reset to
default button as well. For AMD users,
these GPU optimizations not only boosted
my 1% lows significantly, but also
reduced my RAM and VRAM usage by an
entire gigabyte each. So, if you want
results like these, start, of course, by
opening up your AMD software. Click the
settings cog at the top right, then
click on preferences. Disable absolutely
everything so you don't have stupid
overlays running in the background. Same
thing with the hotkeys, unless you use
them, of course. Next, click on gaming,
then graphics. This is where we're going
to make the most changes. On texture
filtering quality, change it from
standard to performance to prioritize
performance over image quality. If you
find that it makes your game look worse,
change it back. Surface format
optimization is the main reason why I
get significantly less VRAM usage with
my optimized settings. So, definitely
turn this on, especially if you play
VRAMm hungry games, because it'll
literally allow you to use higher
quality settings if you ran into low
memory issues before. For tessellation
mode, leave it alone if you mainly play
single player games. But for comp
sweats, we're going to override the
settings and set our maximum
tessellation level to off. And that's it
for that. Time for a quick sweep through
the settings app to disable
non-essential features. And
unfortunately, even if you've done this
before, Windows updates will silently
reenable some of these settings behind
your back. For example, I literally
turned all of this off in the last
Windows optimization guide I made, and
somehow they got turned on again. So
yeah, treat this more as a checklist so
you know your PC is running the settings
you want it to. Let's begin by opening
the settings app by pressing Windows
plus I. Starting with the system
settings, click on system on the left,
then notifications. As I've said before,
notifications themselves don't
measurably affect your performance.
Maybe like a kilobyte of RAM and a
fraction of a percent of your CPU. But
the processes that manage the
notifications definitely can affect your
performance. So, to avoid any of this
hassle and to not be bothered during
your very intense gaming sessions, you
should disable notifications. On the
left, click on Bluetooth and services.
There's a minuscule chance that having
Bluetooth could affect your Wi-Fi or USB
connections. And although that's never
happened to me, there's still no point
in enabling Bluetooth unless you're
actively using it. Then click on
personalization on the left, then
dynamic lighting. If you didn't know,
this is basically a background app that
manages your RGB lighting, which can
conflict with other RGB software. Turn
these two settings off unless you use
it. Now, go to apps, advanced app
settings, share across devices, and turn
it off unless for some reason you need
it on. Next, go back to apps and click
on startup apps. Don't feel pressured
like you need to disable everything.
Even I have quite a few on. But if
there's anything that you don't want to
open on startup, you should turn those
off. Now, click on accessibility
settings on the left. Go to visual
effects and disable both transparency
and animation effects. While this
matters less if you're in the minority
and play games on exclusive full screen
instead of windowed full screen, this is
still a set it and forget it type of
thing, so you should probably just
disable it. Continuing with privacy and
security settings, quickly go through
every subsection, beginning with general
all the way down to diagnostics and
feedback for better privacy and
security. Uh, you might be wondering
where activity history went. We usually
always talk about that in these types of
videos, but they actually remove those
settings as of October 2025. Anyways,
like I always say, you should always
read up on what everything does in case
you do want to leave some of these on.
But yeah, definitely turn most of these
off. Moving on to the search tab,
formerly search permissions, have
everything off, but definitely enable
enhanced file searching. If you don't
have an absolute potato PC with a one
core CPU, you should use enhanced. But
at the end of the day, it's up to you.
Finally, for the last section in the
settings, find Windows update on the
left, click advanced options and have
these four things off to keep Bill Gates
from breaking into your house and
stealing your cookies. Then go to
delivery optimization and turn off allow
downloads from other devices. By turning
this off, you just made sure that your
Windows updates come directly from
Microsoft servers instead of other
people's devices. You also potentially
increase your update speeds and
prevented your PC from sending your data
to other random people on the internet.
Now, we're going to disable some
advanced system settings. And
ironically, these are very simple to
change. Now, I'll be honest, this isn't
going to give you a big FPS boost like
some of the other tweaks we did, but
it's still worth doing to free up some
CPU and RAM cycles in under 30 seconds.
If that sounds good to you, press your
Windows key and type view advanced, then
enter. Under performance, click on
settings. Simply click adjust for best
performance, but reenable show
thumbnails instead of icons, show window
contents while dragging, and smooth
edges of screen fonts. This will keep
Windows 11 looking mostly the same, but
frees up some CPU and RAM cycles. Now
for the registry editor tweaks. And yes,
you are looking at 23.7% better 1% lows
just from these few tweaks. So do not
skip this part. To open up the registry
editor, press your Windows key, type in
regedit, and open it as an admin. Now,
because these are going to be some of
the most impactful settings we're going
to change in this video, it is crucial
that we export our registry. This way,
if you run into any issues or want to
try different values, all you would have
to do is use the registry file you just
created. So yeah, just click on file,
export, and boom, it's that easy. For
the first tweak, select this text up
here, replace it with this line from the
description, and press enter. If done
correctly, you will automatically get to
this folder. This is also how we're
going to get to every folder in the
section of the video. Then, double click
on scheduling category and change the
string value to high. And yes,
capitalization does matter. This will
also cause your computer to treat your
priority value as if it was set to two,
regardless of what you do to it. And
until Microsoft updates their
documentation from earlier this year on
July 14th, 2025, GPU priority and SFIO
priority values still do nothing. So,
you're fully optimized here. The second
regret tweak we're going to do is change
the wind32 priority separation value.
The number you set here controls how
Windows splits CPU resources between
foreground apps, your game for example,
and background tasks. Now, Windows tries
to keep things balanced by default, so
this tweak will make the CPU focus more
on the game. So, copy and paste this
line from the description into the
address bar and hit enter. Double click
win32 priority separation. There are
three things that you can change in
here. Depending on the number you put by
setting this to a value of 26, you're
going to get the best possible
responsiveness and boost the priority of
your foreground tasks. However, you
should definitely take the time to test
this one individually from any of the
other tweaks in this video. So, if
you're not getting the results you want
with 26, try some of these other values
which are widely considered to be good.
And remember, you have to restart your
PC every single time you change this
value. I promise you it's worth your
time, though. Now, let's optimize your
internet a little bit by disabling
network throttling. For some of you,
this may give you lower ping and more
consistent connection, but for others,
this might actually do the exact
opposite. I've never had issues with
this across any of my devices, but
regardless, this is a setting that you
should test individually from the others
because it could be problematic for some
of you. Anyways, copy and paste this
path from the description. If you don't
see a value called network throttling
index in this folder, don't worry. As
long as you are in the correct folder,
just right click on an empty space,
click new, and then dword 32-bit value
and name it network throttling index.
Capitalization is once again very
important. To disable it, double click
your newly created value and set it to
hexodimal FF FF FF FFF. That's 8 Fs. If
you find that this value sucks, then
sure, change it back to the default
hexodimal 8. And for the final registry
tweak, system responsiveness. This value
determines the percent of CPU resources
that are given to background tasks. So
set it to the lowest possible value of
10. If you try anything lower, Windows
treats it as if you typed in 20. So 10
is the best possible value here. And to
finish things up, we're just going to do
a few very simple BIOS tweaks. Starting
with enabling XMPP/DOCCP.
By default, your RAM may not run at the
speed you paid for and might run at a
much slower basic speed called a Jedec
profile. By enabling XMPP/DOCCP,
it'll run at the faster advertised
speed. And this can give you a huge FPS
boost, especially for your 1% lows. Just
check your RAM information online or in
the manual to make sure that it supports
this technology first. though. If it
does, go into the BIOS by simply
restarting your PC and spamming the
delete key or F2. Once you're in, the
option is often right on the main
screen, or you might find it in the AI
tweaker, overclocking, or extreme
tweaker tab. It will look slightly
different for everyone, but it might not
be an option for you if you're not on
the desktop. And some of you might
actually need a whole BIOS update just
for it to show up. But when you do find
it, simply change that setting to
enabled or profile one. The second thing
we're going to do in the BIOS is enable
or disable SMT/Hyperthreading
depending on how many CPU cores you
have. Simultaneous multi-threading or
hyperthreading basically lets each
individual core in your CPU execute two
threads at the same time. To access the
setting, you're going to have to go into
your BIOS's advanced mode. It's likely
somewhere in your advanced CPU settings,
but if you need help finding where it is
for your specific motherboard model,
Google is your best friend here. When
you find the SMT or hyperthreading
setting though, rule of thumb is to
enable it if you have less than eight
cores and disable it if you have eight
or more, but it does depend on the game.
So, definitely test it out for yourself.
And finally, we're going to enable above
4G decoding and resizable bar. If you
have a GPU with more than 4 GB of VRAM,
above 4G decoding allows your system to
basically use that VRAM significantly
more efficiently. And turning it on also
unlocks resizable bar, which not only
allows your CPU to have access to all of
your VRAMm at once instead of in 256 MGB
chunks. And together, these two can
increase your FPS by up to 70% for Intel
GPU users and up to 10% for everyone
else. Again, these are going to be in a
different spot depending on your
motherboard, but here are some common
locations. Basically, no reason to turn
either of these off, though. And just
before you quit the BIOS, make sure that
you save and exit. But that's enough
talking from me. Now, I want to hear
from you if these optimizations worked
for you and gave you a performance
boost. Let me know down below. And if
you ran into any issues, leave a comment
explaining exactly what went wrong and
what step it happened on so that the
community can help you out. But for now,
enjoy your newly optimized PC.
[Music]